ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS CAPTURE
ADDITIONAL TOWNS IN IRAQ
PRESIDENT OBAMA TALKS ABOUT WHAT
AMERICA CAN AND CANNOT DO.
>> WHAT WE CAN'T DO IS THINK W
CAN PLAY WHACK A MOLE.
>> SIGNATURE SEGMENT SMALL
BUSINESSES STRUGGLING TO GET
BANK LOANS NOW TURNING T
ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF CREDIT.
>> ACTUALLY IT'S A VERY EASY
PROCESS.
IN THREE DAYS WE HAD THE MONEY
WE NEEDED.
>>> JEFFREY BROWN ON A CULTURA
ICON TURNING 40.
NEXT ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM STUDIOS AT LINCOLN SENATO
IN NEW YORK, THIS IS PBS
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FOR
JOINING US
MUSLIM EXTREMISTS WHO HAVE OVE
RUN MUCH OF NORTHERN AND WESTERN
IRAQ HAVE SEIZED ANOTHER TOWN 90
MILES FROM IRAQ'S BORDER WIT
JORDAN
CONTROL A FINAL STRETCH OF A
MAJOR HIGHWAY CONNECTING IRAQ TO
JORDAN
IN A TELEVISION INTERVIEW THAT
AIRED TODAY PRESIDENT OBAM
EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT PROBLEM,
AL QAEDA IN YEMEN AND ISIS I
IRAQ
HE SAYS AMERICA HAS TO PROCEED
CAREFULLY.
>> THIS IS GOING TO BE A GLOBA
CHALLENGE AND ONE THE UNITED
STATES IS GOING TO ADDRESS
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE T
ADDRESS IS ALONE
WHAT WE CAN'T DO IS THINK WE'R
GOING TO PLAY WHAC-A-MOLE AN
HAVE TROOPS WHEREVER
ORGANIZATIONS POP UP
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
MORE FOCUSED AND STRATEGIC AND
TRAIN LOCAL MILITARY TO DO THEIR
JOBS AS WELL
>> ISRAELI TANKS FIRED ACROS
THE BORDER AT SYRIAN ARM
POSITIONS AFTER WHAT ISRAELI
CONDEMNED AS A, QUOTE,
INTENTIONAL ATTACK
AN EXPLOSION FROM INSIDE SYRIA
THAT KILLED A 13-YEAR-OL
ARAB-ISRAELI AND WOUNDED TWO
OTHERS
IT'S UNCLEAR WHAT TYPE O
EXPLOSIVE WAS USED OR BY WHOM.
ISRAEL WARNED IT WILL HOLD
SYRIAN RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY
ATTACKS IN ITS TERRITORY
IN THE WEST BANK ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES KILLED TWO PALESTINIANS
DURING THEIR SEARCH FOR THRE
MISSING ISRAELI TEENAGERS.
ISRAEL CLAIMS HAMAS RESPONSIBL
FOR KIDNAPPING
MAHMOUD ABBAS CONDEMNE
KIDNAPPING AND SAYS TODA
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT
THE CLAIM OF HAMAS'S
INVOLVEMENT.
AS ISRAELI PRIME MINISTE
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU SAID IN A T
INTERVIEW TODAY A RECENT UNITY
DOLE UNDERMINED HAMAS'
CREDIBILITY.
>> YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS
YOU CAN'T TALK ABOUT PEACE WIT
ISRAEL AND BEING UNITY
GOVERNMENT WITH HAMAS WH
KIDNAPS TEENAGERS.
YOU CAN HAVE ONE OR THE OTHE
NOT BOTH
>> IN EGYPT TODAY SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY MET WITH NEWL
ELECTED EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT A
SISI AND EGYPTIAN FOREIG
MINISTER
UNITED STATES HAS BEEN URGIN
EGYPT TO MODERATE ITS POLICIES
YESTERDAY A COURT CONDEMNED TO
DEATH LEADER OF MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD AND 182 OF ITS
MEMBERS.
EARLIER THIS MONTH THE UNITE
STATES AGREED TO SEND AN
ADDITIONAL $572 MILLION IN
MILITARY AID TO EGYPT.
THIS IS ON TOP OF THE $200
MILLION IN ECONOMIC AID ALREAD
DELIVERED THIS YEAR.
THE UNITED STATES SUSPENDE
MILITARY AID EGYPT
IN HIS FIRST INTERVIEW SINCE
HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER KEVI
McCARTHY TOLD FOX NEWS TODAY H
HAS NO PLANS TO PUSH FOR ANY
IMMEDIATE IMMIGRATION REFORM
>> I'M ON RECORD SAYING NOTHIN
ABOUT IMMIGRATION UNTIL WE
SECURE THE BORDERS
THE BORDERS ARE NOT SECURE
UNTIL YOU SECURE THE BORDERS
YOU CANNOT HAVE A CONVERSATION
ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE.
>> TODAY RESPONDING TO A SURGE
IN ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION FRO
CENTRAL AMERICA, THE U.S. BORDER
PATROL ANNOUNCED PLANS TO FL
SEVERAL HUNDRED MIGRANTS FRO
SOUTH TEXAS TO CALIFORNIA.
THE BORDER PATROL SAID SINCE
SEPTEMBER IT HAS TAKEN INT
CUSTODY MORE THAN 50,000
UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN ENTERIN
INTO THE UNITED STATES
MOSS OF THEM FROM HONDURAS
GUATEMALA AND EL SALVADOR.
ALSO FROM TEXAS, MASS GRAVES
DISCOVERED CONTAINING WHAT ARE
BELIEVED TO BE THE REMAINS O
PEOPLE WHO TRIED TO ENTER TH
UNITED STATES ILLEGALLY THROUG
MEXICO
LOCAL OFFICIALS REPORTEDLY PAI
A FUNERAL HOME TO DISPOSE OF A
INDETERMINATE NUMBER OF BODIES
THEY ARE BELIEVED TO BE BURIED
BETWEEN 2005 AND 2009.
THE STORY WAS FIRST REPORTED B
CORPUS CHRISTI TIMES THURSDAY.
>>> FLORIDA ENACTED NE
LEGISLATION ENACTING STAND YOU
GROUND LAW ENABLING PEOPLE T
USE DEADLY FORCE IF THEY FEA
SERIOUS INJURY FROM AN ATTACKER.
THE NEW MEASURE SIGNED INTO LA
FRIDAY BY GOVERNOR RICK SCOT
ALLOWS THOSE UNDER THREAT TO
DISPLAY THEIR WEAPONS AND FIRE
WARNING SHOTS.
THE CHANGE IS INSPIRED BY TH
CASE OF MARISSA ALEXANDER, A
WOMAN SENTENCED TO 20 YEARS IN
PRISON AFTER SHE FIRED A GUN BUT
DID NOT HARM HER ALLEGEDLY
ABUSIVE HUSBAND.
SHE WAS NOT ABLE TO INVOKE STAND
YOUR GROUND AS A DEFENSE
HER CONVICTION WAS LATER
OVERTURNED ON APPEAL
>>> EARLIER GEORGE ZIMMERMAN
RELIED ON STAND YOUR GROUND TO
BE ACQUITTED IN THE DEATH OF A
TEENAGER TRAYVON MARTIN.
IN MOSCOW TODAY RUSSIA
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
EXPRESSED SUPPORT FROM
CEASE-FIRE UKRAINIAN SOURCES
THEY CONFERRED ABOUT THE
LINGERING CRISIS
FOR MORE ABOUT THE SITUATION I
UKRAINE WE'RE JOINED BY ANDREW
LET ME ASK YOU, WHAT IS LIFE
LIKE NOW THAT WE HAVE YOU HERE
DOES IT SEEM LIKE A CITY AT TH
HEART OF A CRISIS?
>> YOU KNOW, ALLISON, THIS HAS
BEEN HAPPENING FOR A LITTL
WHILE NOW.
I THINK THERE ARE TOWNS MORE A
THE EPICENTER OF THE FIGHTIN
AND IN PLACES LIKE SLOVYANSK
REBEL STRONGHOLD NOT FAR FRO
HERE
LIFE HAS CHANGED A LOT
THERE'S SERIOUS PROBLEMS WIT
WATER, LACK OF ELECTRICITY
YOU KNOW, MORE THAN 200, MOR
THAN 300 PEOPLE HAVE BEE
INJURED IN THE FIGHTING SO FAR
DONETSK FEELS VERY EMPTY, QUIET.
A LOT OF CLOSED SHOPS AND A LO
OF PEOPLE WHO FOUND A WAY TO GET
OUT OF THE CITY FOR THE SUMMER
>> IT'S INTERESTING THAT YOU
SHOULD MENTION THAT BECAUSE
WAS SURFING MOSCOW TIMES WEBSITE
AND THERE'S A HUGE ARTICLE THERE
WHERE THE HEADLINE SAYS IN PARTS
OF UKRAINE A DAILY STRUGGLE TO
SURVIVE, THE TOWN YOU MENTIONED.
IN TERMS OF THE HUMANITARIAN
CRISIS, WHO IS THAT GOING TO PUT
PRESSURE ON?
CYNICALLY, WHO COULD USE IT TO
THEIR ADVANTAGE?
>> I THINK THE HUMANITARIA
CRISIS IS GOING TO PUT THE MOS
PRESSURE ON THE UKRAINIA
GOVERNMENT
TO AVOID BEING TAINTED BY
REALLY BAD HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
TAKING PLACE EAST OF THE
COUNTRY.
SO THAT WOULD PUT MORE PRESSUR
ON THEM TO STOP WHAT THEY CALL
THE ANTI-TERRORIST OPERATION
HERE IN THE EAST
IT ALSO PUTS PRESSURE, TOO
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE LEADERS
HERE SAY THEY WANT MOSCOW TO
BRING IN HUMANITARIAN AID OR
BRING IN PEACEKEEPING TROOPS
SO FAR MOSCOW HAS BEEN ANY SOR
OF RESPONSE TO THOSE REQUESTS.
>>> THE PROPOSED CEASE-FIRE.
IT WAS DESCRIBED PUTIN'S
REACTION WAS IT WAS A CARROT AND
A STICK.
WHAT'S THE CARROT AND WHAT'S THE
STICK?
>> THE CARROT WAS THAT RUSSI
WOULD BE ON BOARD WITH SOME SORT
OF PEACE PLAN AND THEY COULD
CALL AND WOULD CALL FOR RUSSIA
SEPARATIST, PRO-RUSSIA
SEPARATISTS IN THE COUNTRY T
PUT DOWN THEIR ARMS.
THAT'S THE CARROT HERE
THE STICK IS ALWAYS TH
POSSIBILITY OF A MILITARIZATIO
OF THE BORDER.
RUSSIA PUT 60,000 TROOPS O
COMBAT ALERT AND IS HOLDIN
DRILLS RIGHT NOW
I DON'T THINK WE'RE QUITE AT THE
PLACE WHERE WE WERE IN APRIL
WHEN MANY OF THOSE TROOPS WERE
ON THE BORDER, AS MANY A
40,000
THERE IS STILL THIS QUESTION O
THERE'S ALWAYS A POSSIBILITY O
A RUSSIAN INTERVENTION, TOO.
IT'S VERY POSSIBLE THAT TH
DECISION TO PUT THOSE TWO ON
COMBAT ALERT WAS AN INDICATION
OF THAT.
>> ANDREW ROSS, "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTING FROM DONETSK, THAN
YOU SO MUCH FOR SHARING YOUR
REPORTING.
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT WE FOCUS ON TH
DIFFICULTIES SMALL BUSINESSE
OFTEN ENCOUNTER WHEN THEY TRY TO
GET BANK LOANS
IT CAN BE A PROBLEM NOT ONLY FOR
THOSE BUSINESSES BUT FOR THE
OVERALL ECONOMY BECAUSE LOAN
FUEL EXPANSION AND EXPANSION
LEADS TO NEW HIRING.
IN FACT, SMALL BUSINESSES AR
CREDITED WITH CREATING TWO O
EVERY THREE NEW JOBS
RECENTLY NEW ONLINE LENDERS HAVE
POPPED UP AS ALTERNATIVES TO
BANKS.
THE COSTS ARE HIGH BUT THE
PROCESS IS DRAMATICALLY FASTER
"NEWSHOUR" SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
STACEY TISDALE REPORTS
>> Reporter: SOON AFTER OPENIN
D.J.'S DELIGHT, CO-OWNER
REALIZED THEY NEEDED TO UPGRAD
KITCHEN EQUIPMENT.
THEY FIGURED THEY COULD EASILY
GET A SMALL BUSINESS LOAN OF
ABOUT $6,000 TO DO THAT.
BUT WHEN LINDA, WHO MANAGES TH
BOOKS, TRIED TO GO TO THE BANK
IN 2010, HE QUICKLY FOUND OUT IT
WAS GOING TO BE ANYTHING BUT
EASY
>> IT'S AGGRAVATING.
YOU DO NOT HAVE TWO MONTHS T
WAIT FOR THAT LOAN FOR THE BAN
WHEN YOU NEED THE MONEY NOW.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE GETTING TH
DOOR SHUT IN YOUR FACE
>> SO STARTED SEARCHING FO
LENDING ONLINE AND CAME ACROSS A
LENDER ON DECK
HE DID A LITTLE RESEARCH AND
APPLIED FOR THE LOAN, THE ENTIRE
PROCESS TAKING PLACE ON LINE
>> IT TOOK LITERALLY 10 MINUTES.
IT WASN'T ANYTHING THAT TOOK
AWAY A LOT OF MY TIME FROM
RUNNING THE BUSINESS OR HAVING
TO GATHER 50 DIFFERENT DOCUMENTS
OR TAX STATEMENTS OR ANYTHIN
LIKE THAT.
IT WAS A VERY EASY PROCESS
IN THREE DAYS WE HAD THE MONEY
WE NEEDED.
>> SINCE THE FINANCIAL CRISIS,
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING BY BANK
HAS DECLINED SUBSTANTIALLY
ACCORDING TO FEDERAL DATA.
THE VALUE OF LOANS OF LESS THA
$100,000 IS DOWN BY MORE THA
18% SINCE 2008
WHILE BANKS HAVE PULLED BACK
NEW TYPES OF SPARSELY REGULATE
NONBANK LENDERS HAVE STEPPED I
AS ALTERNATIVES HOPING T
DISRUPT SMALL BUSINESS LENDING
ONLINE COMPANIES LIKE CABBAGE,
CAN CAPITAL, SWIFT CAPITAL
PAYPAL, AND HIS LENDER ON DECK
ARE USING TECHNOLOGY TO MAKE
FAST DECISIONS ABOUT SMALL LOANS
BUT WITH INTEREST RATES THAT CAN
BE SEVERAL TIMES THAT OF A BAN
LOAN
>> BANKS HAVE NOT BEEN NATURAL
LENDERS TO THIS SEGMENT OF THE
MARKET
>> A FORMER SOFTWARE ENGINEER,
ON DECK TYPICALLY LOANS TO SMALL
BUSINESSES WITH LESS THAN TE
EMPLOYEES.
THE AVERAGE LOAN $40,000 WIT
TAERM OF ONE YEAR.
IT'S A TYPE OF LOAN HE SAYS IS
VERY DIFFICULT FOR A TRADITIONAL
BANK MAKE IT PROFITABLE.
>> IT ALLOWS TO YOU MAKE THA
$40,000 LOAN IN SECONDS BU
USING THE SAME ANALYTICAL DEPT
SPEEDING UP A PROCESS THAT WAS
MUCH LESS EFFICIENT.
>> CAN SAY YES TO MORE SMALL
BUSINESSES
>> WHEN A BUSINESS APPLIES FOR A
LOAN, THEY QUICKLY ANALYZE 2,000
DATA POINTS, BOTH BIG AND SMALL,
CRUNCHES TRADITIONAL METRICS
CASH FLOW AND BUSINESS PROFILE
BUT ALSO SOCIAL DATA, WHIC
MEANS IF YOU'RE A RESTAURANT
LIKE D.J.'S DELIGHTS, IT WILL BE
CHECKING WHAT CUSTOMERS SAY ON
REVIEW SITES LIKE YELP
>> WHAT CAN YELP TELL YOU ABOU
CREDITWORTHINESS
>> YOU HAVE TO BE CAREFUL.
YOU DON'T WANT TO MAKE A
DECISION ON A LOAN BECAUSE
SOMEONE DIDN'T LIKE THE CHICKE
LAST NIGHT IN THE RESTAURANT
YOU CAN BUILD PATTERNS AND
MODELS
IT WILL TELL YOU A RESTAURAN
DOING $2 MILLION IN REVENU
MIGHT HAVE THIS NUMBER OF YELP
REVIEWS OR THIS FREQUENCY OF
YELP REVIEWS
>> EXTENDED MORE THAN $1 BILLION
IN CREDIT SINCE LAUNCHING IN
2007 AND RAISED MONEY FROM
HIGH-PROFILE INVESTORS
UNLIKE BANKS, THE LOANS ARE NO
BACKED BY COLLATERAL
WHILE THEY DON'T DISCLOS
DETAILED DATA ON DEFAULT, IT
SAYS THE RATE IS IN SINGLE
DIGITS FOR LOANS
FOR RON IT HAS BECOME
CONSISTENT SOURCE OF CREDIT.
THE BUSINESS IS ON ITS FOURT
LOAN AND USED MONEY TO STOCK
SUPPLIES AFTER SUPERSTORM SAND
AND TO EXPAND FROM A SIT DOW
RESTAURANT TO A SMALL MARKET
>> WE DEFINITELY WOULDN'T BE
WHERE WE ARE WITHOUT HELP.
>> JUST OVER 12 MONTHS
THE MONEY ISN'T CHEAP.
ANNUAL INTEREST IS 30%, ALMOST
SIX TIMES WHAT A SMALL BUSINES
LOAN FROM A BANK WOULD BE.
>> GETTING THAT MONEY EVEN A
THAT HIGH RATE WORTH IT.
>> IT IS WORTH IT.
IT'S HIGH INTEREST, OF COURSE.
WHEN YOU'RE A BUSINESS OWNER AND
NEED THE MONEY AND YOUR BUSINESS
NEEDS IT, YOU'RE GOING TO ACCEPT
IT
>> WHILE IT WORKED FOR HIM
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS WITH
SMALL BUSINESSES RUNNING INT
TROUBLE WITH HIGH-INTEREST LOANS
FROM OTHER LENNERS
WHILE THEY THINK THE COST OF THE
LOANS WILL COME DOWN, TH
AVERAGE ANNUAL INTEREST RATE I
ABOUT 50%.
>> RATES AREN'T CHEAP.
HOW DO YOU JUSTIFY THAT HIGHER
RATE TO CLIENTS.
>> YOU'RE PAYING FOR SPEED AND
CONVENIENCE.
THEY WOULD MUCH RATHER HAVE
CHOICE OF TAKING THE LOAN THAN
NOT HAVE THE OPTION AT ALL
I THINK FOR THE VALUE WE
PROVIDE, WE'RE PRICED FAIRLY
>> LENDERS LIKE ON DECK HAVE
BEEN CRITICIZED FOR TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF DESPERATE SMALL
BUSINESS OWNERS.
>> PEOPLE THINK SMALL BUSINESS
OWNERS ARE UNSOPHISTICATED
OUR BUSINESS CUSTOMER HAS BEEN
IN BUSINESS ON AVERAGE 10 YEARS.
MULTIPLE ECONOMIC CYCLES
IT'S NOT LIKE WE'RE TAKING FOLKS
WHO DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT THEY
ARE DOING.
>> ALTERNATIVE LENDERS ARE STILL
VERY MUCH ALTERNATIVE.
WHILE ON DECK AND OTHERS HAV
BEEN GROWING RAPIDLY LENDING A
ESTIMATED $3 BILLION IN TOTA
LAST YEAR, THAT AMOUNT IS JUST A
TINY FRACTION OF SMALL BUSINES
LOANS GIVEN BY BANKS
IN TOTAL, MORE THAN $125 BILLION
IN 2013.
>> COMMUNITY BANKS HAVE BEEN
INNOVATING FOR DECADES
THEY DO THE VAST MAJORITY OF
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING
LOWER DOLLAR LENDING TO SMAL
BUSINESSES
>> PAUL IS THE CHIEF ECONOMIST
FOR INDEPENDENT COMMUNIT
BANKERS OF AMERICA
TOGETHER COMMUNITY BANKS ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR 60% OF SMALL
BUSINESS LOANS DESPITE BEING
JUST 15% OF THE TOTAL BANKIN
MARKET
INDUSTRY SURVEYS SHOWED THEY
APPROVED HALF OF ALL SMALL
BUSINESS APPLICANTS.
THAT'S LESS THAN ALTERNATIVE
LENDERS ON THE WHOLE BUT MOR
THAN ON DECK AND MORE THAN BIG
BANKS WHICH APPROVE 20% OF
APPLICANTS
>> COMMUNITY BANKS SPECIALIZE IN
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING, THAT'S
BECAUSE IT'S A RELATIONSHI
LENDING WHERE THE COMMUNITY BANK
KNOWS THE LOCAL MARKET, KNOW
THE CUSTOMER, KNOWS THE SMAL
BUSINESS OWNER PERSONALLY MANY
TIMES.
THAT REALLY HELPS WITH THE
LENDING DECISION AND MAKES A
BETTER LENDING DECISION THAN A
TRANSACTION THAT HAS BEEN DONE
ONLINE OR 1,000 MILES AWAY
>> WHEN IT COMES TO COST, BANK
CAN OFFER A MUCH CHEAPER OPTIO
FOR SMALL BUSINESSES THA
QUALIFY.
ON AVERAGE 5 POURS ANNUA
INTEREST FOR A LOAN UNDE
$100,000
>> MANY OF THESE NEW STARTUP
ARE A SIMPLE FORMULA, HIGH
RATES.
MAYBE SIMPLE AND QUICK TO GE
YOUR LOAN BUT THE RATES AN
TERMS AREN'T GOING TO SERVE TH
SMALL BUSINESS OWNER AND NOT
GOING TO SERVE THE BEST INTEREST
OF THAT BUSINESS
>> NOAH IS CONVINCED TECHNOLOG
IS USHERING IN HUGE CHAPGS I
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING
WHERE DO YOU SEE THI
ALTERNATIVE LENDING INDUSTRY I
10, 20 YEARS
>> I THINK IT LOSES TH
DESIGNATION OF ALTERNATIVE
JUST LIKE TODAY I BUY A PLAN
TICKET ONLINE WITH PRICE
LINE.COM, MAYBE 20 YEARS AGO I
WOULD HAVE TALKED TO A TRAVE
AGENT.
WE ARE GOING THROUGH THAT ENTIRE
CYCLE.
PROBABLY YEAR 25 OF A 20 YEA
JOURNEY IN TERMS OF LENDING.
>> SINCE TAKING OUT LOANS WITH
ON DECK, HE THINKS HE COUL
PROBABLY GET A LOAN FROM A
TRADITIONAL BANK, NOT THAT H
WANTS ONE.
AFTER PAYING BACK THE CURREN
LOAN, WHEN HE AND HIS PARTNE
ARE HOPING TO BE ABLE TO RUN THE
RESTAURANT WITHOUT ANY LOANS
TRADITIONAL OR ALTERNATIVE
>> LEARN ABOUT AN INTERNATIONA
MICRO LENDER THAT ADAPTED IT
BUSINESS MODEL FOR SMALL
BUSINESS OWNERS HERE IN TH
UNITED STATES.
VISIT "NEWSHOUR".PBS.ORG
>>> A QUICK UPDATE TO OU
SIGNATURE PIECE FROM LAS
SUNDAY
THE REPORT FROM UGANDA
DESCRIBING THAT EAST AFRICAN
CRACKDOWN AGAINST HOMOSEXUALITY.
THIS WEEK OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED IT'S TRIMMING AID TO
UGANDA AND IMPOSING A TRAVEL BAN
ON SOME UGANDAN OFFICIALS.
IT CALLED THE UGANDAN LAW,
QUOTE, COUNTER TO UNIVERSA
HUMAN RIGHTS
>>> THE RUBIK'S CUBE TURNS 4
THIS YEAR.
NOW A NEW EXHIBIT IS PROVING
TIME IS ONLY ADDING TO THE
MYSTIQUE OF THE CULTURAL ICON.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IT COULDN'T B
SIMPLER, OR FOR MOST OF US MOR
DIFFICULT.
26 CUBES DESIGNED TO INTERLOCK
AND ROTATE AROUND AN AXIS THAT
CAN BE SHUFFLED 42 QUINTILLION
WAYS
YET A RUBIK'S CUBE CAN BE SOLVED
IN 20 OR FEWER MOVES
IT'S PUZZLE DELIGHTED MILLIONS
FROM YOUNG CHILDREN TO THI
ROBOT.
THE ROBOT IS PART OF A NEW
EXHIBIT CALLED BEYOND RUBIK'
CUBE
IT HAPPENED IN NEW JERSEY TO
CELEBRATE THE 40th BIRTHDAY OF
THE CUBE
IN A RARE PUBLIC APPEARANCE,
INVENTOR RUBIK WAS ON HAND T
MEET FANS AND TALK ABOUT THE
IMPACT OF HIS WORK
RUBIK WAS A 29-YEAR-OL
ARCHITECTURAL PROFESSOR IN BUDDE
-- BUDAPEST WHEN HE CREATED TH
TOOL IN 1964
WHAT BEGAN AS A SPATIAL TOOL FOR
STUDENTS GREW BY HIS OWN ACCOUNT
INTO SOMETHING LESS PRACTICAL.
>> THERE'S NO PRACTICAL USE.
>> NO PRACTICAL USE FOR THIS
>> IT'S -- YOU CAN DO IT FREELY.
IT DEPENDS ON YOU, FOR FUN
SPEND SOME TIME IF YOU HAVE FREE
TIME
IT'S INTERESTING IN GENERAL.
>> EVERYONE WHO STRUGGLED WITH
THAT OBJECT EVERY SINCE WILL N
DOUBT BE HAPPY TO LEARN THAT I
TOOK THE INVENTOR HIMSELF MORE
THAN A MONTH TO SOLVE HI
CREATION FOR THE FIRST TIME.
>> I REMEMBER IT WAS A
EMOTIONAL MOMENT
>> IT WAS AN EMOTIONAL MOMENT.
>> YES
>> IT'S ESTIMATED MORE THAN 35
MILLION RUBIK'S CUBE HAVE BEEN
SOLD SINCE THE PUZZLE WA
LAUNCHED IN 1980 MAKING IT THE
BEST SELLING TOY OF ALL TIME
ABOUT ONE IN SEVEN PEOPLE HAVE
PLAYED WITH A RUBIK'S CUBE
IN CASE YOU'RE WONDERING RUBIK
LIVES COMFORTABLY.
BUT SYRINGE VENTED THE CUB
ORIGINALLY IN COMMUNIST COUNTR
NEVER GOT AS RICH AS HE MIGH
HAVE
>> WHAT I LOVE, HE COULD HAV
INVENTED IT 50 YEARS EARLIER
IT DIDN'T DEPEND ON AN
SCIENTIFIC OR TECHNOLOGICA
EVENT.
>> CEO AND PRESIDENT OF TH
LIBERTY SCIENCE CENTER AS WELL
AS CREATIVE DIRECTOR OF TH
EXHIBIT.
>> I THINK OF IT AS AN OBJEC
THAT BRINGS SO MANY THINGS
TOGETHER
FIRST OF ALL, IT APPEARS TO MANY
OF OUR SENSES.
IT'S TACTILE, FUN TO PLAY WITH
OF COURSE IT APPEALS TO OU
BRAIN.
I THINK WE LOOK AT THIS OBJECT
IT COMES LIKE THIS IN THE BOX,
OKAY, WITH NO INSTRUCTIONS AND
YET YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO.
>> THE EXHIBIT FEATURE
EVERYTHING FROM THE ORIGINAL
RUBBER BAND AND PAPER CLIP
PROTOTYPE CREATED IN 1974 TO THE
BEDAZZLED CUBE OF RUBIES
SAPPHIRES AND DIAMONDS
>> WHAT RUBIK'S CUBE HAS DONE IS
INSPIRE PEOPLE IN ALL FIELDS
ARTIS ALL OVER THE WORLD HAV
USED THOUSANDS OF RUBIK'S CUBE
TO MAKE PIXEL PORTRAITS.
IN THIS EXHIBIT, WE LET OU
VISITORS DO THAT
>> IN ADDITION TO ART, I
REMINDS VIEWERS HOW MUCH THE
RUBIK'S CUBE HAS BECOM
ENGRAINED IN POPULAR CULTURE
OVER THE LAST FEW DECADES.
EVEN AT 40 YEARS OLD, THE CUBE
CONTINUES TO INSPIRE THE NEX
GENERATION OF CURIOUS MIND
INCLUDING COMPETITIVE SPEE
CUBERS
>> NO TWO ARE EXACTLY THE SAME
REGARDLESS OF HOW YOU LOOK A
IT, I'M ALWAYS TURNING IN
DIFFERENT WAY.
ALSO THINK ABOUT HOW TO OPTIMIZE
AND GET FASTER
EVEN WORLD RECORD HOLDERS NO
WILL NOT BE WORLD RECORD HOLDERS
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW.
IT'S INTERESTING TO WATCH TH
SCENE NOW AND WHAT IT GO
FURTHER.
>> 14 SECONDS.
NOT BAD, YOU THINK
HE HAS A LONG WAY TO GO.
CURRENT WORLD RECORD FOR SOLVING
THE RUBIK'S CUBE IS 5.55
SECONDS.
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>> TECHNOLOGY HAS CHANGED TH
WAY WE COMMUNICATE, THE WAY WE
DO BUSINESS, AND NOW THE WAY W
SEE ART.
THANKS SO SOME SCIENTIFI
WIZARDRY, A ONCE RUMORED SECRE
WORK BY PABLO PICASSO HAS PROVEN
TO BE THE REAL THING
>> FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY ART
LOVERS DISCOVERED THE BLUE
PERIOD SET IN MOTION BY THIS
WORK, THE BLUE ROOM.
FOR A DECADE SOMETHING OF
MYSTERY SURROUNDED THE WORK.
AS EARLY AS THE 1950s THEY
WOBDERED ABOUT UNEVE
BRUSHSTROKE.
THEY NOTICED AN IMAGE BEHIND THE
BATHING BLOND WOCHLT IT WASN'T
UNTIL 21st CENTURY INFRARE
TECHNOLOGY THE TRUTH WAS
REVEALED AND CONFIRMED B
EXPERTS.
WHEN CREATING THE BLUE ROOM HE
PAINTED OVER ANOTHER WORK,
PORTRAIT OF A BEARDED MA
WEARING A BOWTIE
>> PICASSO KNOWN TO PAINT OVER
HIS OWN PICTURES
THERE ARE OTHER EXAMPLES WHERE
THERE'S DOCUMENTATION, DRAWINGS,
OR TYPES OF DOCUMENTATION WHER
IT'S CONFIRMED THE PAINTIN
UNDERNEATH THE PAINTING IS B
PICASSO.
>> ONE EXPLANATION FOR WHY
PICASSO WOULD DO SUCH A THIN
HAS LESS TO DO WITH ART AND MORE
TO DO WITH MONEY OR LACK OF IT
AT THE TIME THE 20-YEAR-OL
SPANIARD LIVING IN PARIS WAS
JUST ONE MORE STRUGGLING ARTIST.
TO PRESERVE WHAT LITTLE HE HAD
HE SOMETIMES REUSED CANVASES
>> WE'RE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND BY
IDENTIFYING THIS PERSON IS
SOMETHING ABOUT THE CIRCLE O
INDIVIDUALS THAT PICASSO WAS
INTERACTING WITH
THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT MOMENT
EARLY IN HIS CAREER WHEN HE WA
JUST REALLY BEGINNING TO MAK
HIS NAME KNOWN
>> FOR NOW WE CAN ALL STIL
MARVEL AT A NEW VIEW OF THE BLUE
ROOM
>>> SOME LATE NEWS, REUTERS SAID
THE U.S. MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTE
HAS SUCCESSFULLY INTERCEPTED A
SIMULATED MISSILE.
FIVE OUT OF TEN TESTS HAVE
FAILED
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS EXPRESSE
CONCERN THAT THE INSTABILITY I
IRAQ COULD SPILL OVER INTO
JORDAN
IN A SECRETLY RECORDED
CONVERSATION, A PERSON
IDENTIFIED AS POLAND'S FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID HIS COUNTRY'
ALLIANCE WITH THE UNITED STATE
IS HARMFUL BECAUSE IT GIVE
POLAND A FALSE SENSE O
SECURITY
HE SAYS, QUOTING NOW, WE'R
SUCKERS.
TOTAL SUCKERS.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TOMORROW,
PREVIEW OF KEY PRIMARY CONTESTS.
I'M ALLISON STEWART.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.